# Event Store License

Copyright (c) 2011-2017, Event Store LLP. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of Event Store LLP nor the names of its contributors may be
used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# Dependencies

Event Store is permissively licensed under the 3-clause BSD license. We depend
on several other open source projects either "as-is" or in a modified form, and
credit them along with listing their licensing terms here.

Along with each is a note detailing the form the dependency takes. Nothing is
implied by the order in which dependencies are presented here.

## PowerArgs

*(Note: we use a modified version of PowerArgs, and have included the code in
our repository rather than via NuGet or as a separate DLL)*

Copyright (c) 2013 Adam Abdelhamed

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## NLog

*(Note: The NLog library is included in binary form in our repository as a DLL
rather than via NuGet)*

Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Jaroslaw Kowalski <jaak@jkowalski.net>

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
notice,  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
notice,  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Jaroslaw Kowalski nor the names of its  
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## Newtonsoft Json.NET

*(Note: The Newtonsoft Json.NET library is included in binary form in our
repository as a DLL rather than via NuGet. It is also internalized in the
builds of the C# client API which are distributed via NuGet)*

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2007 James Newton-King

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## protobuf-net

*(Note: The protobuf-net library is included in binary form in our repository
as a DLL rather than via NuGet. It is also internalized in the builds of the C#
client API which are distributed via NuGet. The `protogen` application and
templates included have been modified to suit our requirements, notably the
addition of umbrella classes)*

The core Protocol Buffers technology is provided courtesy of Google.  At the
time of writing, this is released under the BSD license.  Full details can be
found here:

http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/

This .NET implementation is Copyright 2008 Marc Gravell

 Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
 use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
 the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
 WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
 License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
 the License.

## Google V8

*(Note: Event Store takes a source dependency on Google V8 and the other
projects necessary to build it, including gyp and ICU. These are cloned from
our forks of their respective repositories during the build process)*

This license applies to all parts of V8 that are not externally maintained
libraries.  The externally maintained libraries used by V8 are:

- PCRE test suite, located in test/mjsunit/third_party/regexp-pcre.js.  This is
  based on the test suite from PCRE-7.3, which is copyrighted by the University
  of Cambridge and Google, Inc.  The copyright notice and license are embedded
  in regexp-pcre.js.

- Layout tests, located in test/mjsunit/third_party.  These are based on layout
  tests from webkit.org which are copyrighted by Apple Computer, Inc. and
  released under a 3-clause BSD license.

- Strongtalk assembler, the basis of the files assembler-arm-inl.h,
  assembler-arm.cc, assembler-arm.h, assembler-ia32-inl.h, assembler-ia32.cc,
  assembler-ia32.h, assembler-x64-inl.h, assembler-x64.cc, assembler-x64.h,
  assembler-mips-inl.h, assembler-mips.cc, assembler-mips.h, assembler.cc and
  assembler.h.  This code is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems Inc. and released
  under a 3-clause BSD license.

- Valgrind client API header, located at third_party/valgrind/valgrind.h This
  is release under the BSD license.

These libraries have their own licenses; we recommend you read them, as their
terms may differ from the terms below.

Copyright 2014, the V8 project authors. All rights reserved.  Redistribution
and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted
provided that the following conditions are met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
    software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## YamlDotNet

*(Note: we use a modified version of YamlDotNet, and have included the code in
our repository rather than via NuGet or as a separate DLL)*

Copyright (c) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Antoine Aubry

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

